OKTA-954373 - Update the registration inline hook guide (#6201)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/registration-inline-hook/main/index.md

1. Click the **Enrollment** tab, and then click **Edit** in **Profile Enrollment**.
1. Select **Allowed** for **Self-service registration**.
1. From the **Inline hook** menu, select the hook that you set up and activated earlier.

   > **Note:** You can associate only one inline hook at a time with your user profile policy.

1. From **Run this hook**, select **When a new user is created**, and then click **Save**.

Your registration inline hook is configured for profile enrollment (self-service registration). Go to [Preview the registration inline hook](#preview-the-registration-inline-hook) or [Test your registration inline hook](#test-your-registration-inline-hook) to preview and run the sample.

## Set up for progressive profile enrollment scenario

The scenario of progressive profile enrollment involves prompting existing users for new information to add to their profile when they sign in. With this use case, the external service code evaluates the employee number field when the registration inline hook triggers. If the value is four digits, the user's profile is updated. Follow these steps to implement this scenario:

<StackSnippet snippet="introbullets"/><br>

> Ensure you've created your external service as in the previous profile enrollment (self-service registration) scenario. See [Create the external service](#create-the-external-service). However, modify the server code as in the following section, [Add your progressive profile enrollment server code](#add-your-progressive-profile-enrollment-server-code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you've created your external service as in the previous profile enrollment (self-service registration) scenario. See [Create the external service](#create-the-external-service). However, modify the server code as in the following section, [Add your progressive profile enrollment server code](#add-your-progressive-profile-enrollment-server-code).
```

## Set up for profile enrollment (SSR) and progressive profile enrollment

This scenario involves both profile enrollment (self-service registration) and progressive profile enrollment use cases:

> * Existing users are prompted for new information (a four-digit employee number) to add to their profile when they sign in. The external code updates existing users' profiles when it sees a valid four-digit employee number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Existing users are prompted for a four-digit employee number to add to their profile when they sign in. The external code updates existing users' profiles when it sees a valid four-digit employee number.
```

> * New users signing up through the sign-up link need to fill out the default three fields plus the employee number. The external code adds new users if their email domain contains `okta.com` and their employee number is four digits. Otherwise, their registration is denied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When a user signs up through the sign-up link, they need to fill out the default three fields plus the employee number. The external code adds new users if their email domain contains `okta.com` and their employee number is four digits. Otherwise, their registration is denied.
```

Follow these steps to implement this scenario:

<StackSnippet snippet="introbullets"/><br>

> Ensure you've created your external service as in the previous profile enrollment (self-service registration) scenario. See [Create the external service](#create-the-external-service). However, modify the server code as in the following section, [Add your profile and progressive profile enrollment server code](#add-your-profile-and-progressive-profile-enrollment-server-code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you've created your external service as in the previous profile enrollment (self-service registration) scenario. See [Create the external service](#create-the-external-service). However, modify the server code as in the following section, [Add your profile and progressive profile enrollment server code](#add-your-profile-and-progressive-profile-enrollment-server-code).
```

Before creating the enrollment policy, ensure the user profile attribute `employeeNumber` is set to a status of read-write. The `employeeNumber` attribute is read-only by default.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Directory** > **Profile Editor**.
1. Select **User (default)**.
1. In the **Attributes** section, find the **Employee Number**. Click the information icon. The **Employee Number** dialog appears.
1. Select **Read-Write** in the **User permission** section.
1. Click **Save Attribute**.

> To associate the registration inline hook with a user profile policy and the employee number field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to associate the registration inline hook with a user profile policy and the employee number field:
```

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Security** > **User Profile Policies**.
1. Click **Add user profile policy**.
1. Give your policy a name (in this example, use "SSR + PP Inline Hook"), and then click **Save**.

> 1. Find your policy, "SSR + PP Inline Hook", from the list of enrollment policies, and then click the pencil icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find your "SSR + PP Inline Hook" policy from the list of enrollment policies, and then click the pencil icon.
```

Your Okta org is set up to call the sample external service using a registration inline hook. The external service is ready to receive and respond to an Okta call when you run ngrok and start your local app.

>**Note:** Ensure that ngrok is running and your registration inline hook is using the correct forwarding URL. See [Run ngrok](#run-ngrok). Ensure your local sample app is started. See [Start your sample app](#start-your-sample-app).

### Preview a profile enrollment (self-service registration) configuration

In your Okta org, you can preview the request and response JSON in the Admin Console.

To preview a profile enrollment (self-service registration) request and response:

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Workflow** > **Inline Hooks**.
1. Select the registration inline hook name that you created, and then click **Preview**.
1. In the **Configure Inline Hook request** block, select an end user from your org in the **data.userProfile** field. That is, select a value for your `data.user.profile` object.
1. Under **requestType**, select **Self-Service Registration**.
1. From the **Preview example Inline Hook request** block, select **Generate Request**.

>    The end user's request information, in JSON format, that is sent to the external service appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The end user's request information that's sent to the external service appears in JSON format.
```

   > **Note:** Make sure that your edits are valid JSON.

1. Click **Save**. From the **View service's response** block, click **View Response**.

> The response from your external service in JSON format appears, which indicates that the profile update was either allowed or denied. You can also review the console output from your local app and the ngrok web inspector at `http://127.0.0.1:4040` when your ngrok service is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response from your external service appears in JSON format. It indicates if the profile update is allowed or denied. You can also review the console output from your local app and the ngrok web inspector at `http://127.0.0.1:4040` when your ngrok service is running.
```

* If you use an allowable email domain and employee number, the end user registration goes through the profile and progressive profile enrollment scenario.
* If you use an incorrect email domain or employee number (depending on the scenario), the end user registration is denied.

Review the error message that displays the error summary from the external service code and is passed back to the Okta sign-in page. See [error](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/InlineHook/#tag/InlineHook/operation/create-registration-hook!c=200&path=Error&t=response). You can also review the console output from your local app and the ngrok web inspector at `http://127.0.0.1:4040` when your ngrok service is running.

### Test the progressive enrollment hook

To run a test of your progressive profile enrollment registration, use an existing user in your org.

Possible outcomes:

* If you use valid sign-in credentials with an **Employee number** value of four digits, the user's profile is updated.
* If you enter an employee number in an invalid format, the profile update is denied.

> Sign back in as your org admin to review the profile of the user. Confirm that the user's profile was updated and the employee number value exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sign back in as an org admin to review the profile of the user. Confirm that the user's profile is updated and the employee number value exists.
```
